People:

Eddard "Ned" Stark
Played by Sean Bean

House: Stark

Titles:
Lord of Winterfell
Warden of the North
King Robert's Oldest and Greatest Friend

Home: Winterfell

Status: Dead

Description:
Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, Eddard Stark is King Robert’s oldest and greatest friend. Raised together as wards of Lord Arryn, they were going to become brothers when his father Lord Rickard Stark agreed to wed Lyanna, Eddard’s sister, to the young Lord Robert. But Lyanna was stolen away by Prince Rhaegar, and Lord Rickard and his heir Brandon were murdered by the Mad King. Eddard became Lord of Winterfell, and with Robert and Lord Arryn led a rebellion that brought about the end of House Targaryen. A great commander and a dangerous warrior in his own right, Eddard Stark is perhaps best known for his sense of honor and duty; when Robert was willing to condone the murders of Prince Rhaegar’s infant children, Eddard was driven apart from him until the two were reunited in the grief following Lyanna’s lonely death.

Since the rebellion, Lord Eddard has largely kept to the North, only seeing the man he helped to the throne when he called his banners to join him in putting down Lord Greyjoy’s rebellion on the Iron Islands. Eddard is a great lord of the realm, and has the Stark look with his brown hair.

Eddard Stark has been aged 5 years for Game of Thrones. While he is certainly a skilled commander in the series, his skill as a swordsman are much more modest than they appear to be presented as in the show. His negative view of tourneys in the novels had more to do with not turning war into a game, as opposed to reports of the pilot presenting it as his preferring to keep possible opponents unaware of the full extent of his abilities.


Robert Baratheon
Played by Mark Addy

House: Baratheon

Titles:
King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men
Lord of the Seven Kingdoms
Protector of the Realm

Home: Storm's End

Status: Dead

Description:
King Robert is King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm. Along with his closest friend Eddard Stark and their foster father Jon Arryn, Robert Baratheon led the rebellion that toppled the Targaryen dynasty after the Mad King, Aerys, began a reign of terror and his son, Prince Rhaegar, abducted his betrothed, Eddard’s sister Lyanna. Giving up his seat as Lord of Storm’s End—one of the great magnates of the realm—to his youngest brother Renly, he assumed the crown and named his brother Stannis as Lord of Dragonstone, the ancestral Targaryen seat, which has proven a bone of contention between them.

A mighty warrior in his youth, huge and powerfully built, in the last years Robert has gone to fat, eating and drinking too much.

Robert was convinced to marry Lord Tywin’s daughter, Cersei Lannister, making her queen. She has given him three children, but their relationship is a cold and unloving one. He remains a lusty man, however, and is a notorious whoremonger, with a dozen or more bastards to his discredit. He remains a boisterous lover of drink, generous to a fault, and entirely unsuited to ruling the Seven Kingdoms.

According to reports, the character has been aged upwards from thirty-five to his forties. The actor cast in the role, Mark Addy, is notably shorter (8”+) than the character as described in the novels, who is said to be 6’6” tall, but it’s unclear whether cinematic methods will be used to make him seem taller.


Tywin Lannister
Played by Charles Dance

House: Lannister

Home: Storm's End

Titles:
Lord of Catserly Rock
Warden of the West

Home: Casterly Rock

Status: Dead

Description:
The Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West, Lord Tywin is the wealthiest and among the most powerful magnates of the realm. Cold, calculating, and commanding, as a young man he was friend and Hand to King Aerys, and held the great ambition of seeing his daughter Cersei wed to Aerys’s heir. As Aerys descended into madness—marked both by paranoia and megalomania—their relationship grew strained, and finally broke beyond repair when Aerys took Tywin’s young heir, Ser Jaime, into the Kingsguard (thereby making him ineligible to inherit the Rock). Lord Tywin repaid this at the end of Robert’s Rebellion when he sacked King’s Landing and put Prince Rhaegar’s wife and children to the sword.

When Lord Tywin’s blonde hair began to grey, he shaved it, retaining only golden whiskers. Though nearer to 60 than 50, he is lean and fit as a man twenty years his junior. Tall and spare, his green eyes—a family trait—are hard. He almost never smiles, and he cannot stand laughter.

The actor cast in the role is approximately 10 years older than the part as described in the novels.


Places:

Winterfell

Location: The North

Ruling Family:
House Stark(former)
House Bolton

Description:
Winterfell is the seat of House Bolton (formerly House Stark). It is a very large castle located at the center of the North, from where the head of House Stark rules over his people. A small Godswood is enclosed within the walls. It is the capital of the North under King Robb Stark. The castle is located alongside the Kingsroad as it makes its way from the Wall to the capital at King's Landing, more than a thousand miles to the south. It is situated atop hot springs which keep the castle warm even in the worst winters. Winding tombs below the castle contain the remains of Stark kings and lords and record the history of the ancient family. The castle has stood for millennia.

History:
The castle is put to the torch by Ramsay Snow after Theon Greyjoy was betrayed by his own crew. This burned out the wood portions of the castle, though the core stone structures remained fundamentally intact, as did the enclosed godswood. After the fall of Moat Cailin, the Bolton army relocated to the ruined castle in order to restore it as the seat of the rulers of the North.

According to legend, House Stark has held a castle at Winterfell for 8,000 years, though it has been considerably expanded over the centuries.

Eddard Stark rode south to fight in Robert's Rebellion after his father and older brother were killed by the Mad King. At the end of the war, he returned to Winterfell with his new wife Catelyn Tully, their infant son Robb Stark, and also Eddard's bastard son Jon Snow whom he had fathered during the war. After the Greyjoy Rebellion eight years later, Eddard took Theon Greyjoy back to Winterfell as his ward - partly as a political hostage, but perhaps partially to raise him to be an honorable man.

After the death of Hand of the King Jon Arryn, King Robert Baratheon makes a formal visit to Winterfell along with much of the royal court, including his wife Queen Cersei Lannister, their three children Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen, as well as Cersei's brother and Kingsguard member Jaime Lannister, and their brother Tyrion Lannister. A great feast is held in Robert's honor. Robert visits the tomb of Lyanna Stark and asks Lord Eddard to return with him to King's Landing as his new Hand, and to solidify the union between their two Houses by betrothing Eddard's elder daughter Sansa Stark to Crown Prince Joffrey.

Before they leave, however, while climbing a tower Bran Stark accidentally stumbles upon Queen Cersei having sex with her own twin brother Jaime, who then pushes Bran out of the tower window.

Bran survives the fall from the tower, though his legs are left crippled. Lord Eddard reluctantly departs down the Kingsroad with the royal party, along with Sansa and his younger daughter Arya Stark. Jon Snow also leaves Winterfell to join the Night's Watch at the Wall, accompanied by Tyrion. A Catspaw assassin sent by one of the Lannisters tries to kill Bran while he is still in a coma, but he is fought off by Catelyn and killed by Bran's direwolf Summer. Catelyn decides that Eddard must be warned so she leaves for King's Landing along with Ser Rodrik Cassel, leaving her eldest son Robb Stark in charge of Winterfell. After visiting the Wall, Tyrion stops at Winterfell on his return journey to the south, along with the Night's Watch recruiter Yoren. He gives Robb instructions for a special saddle which will allow Bran to ride without the use of his legs.

After word reaches Robb that his father has been arrested in King's Landing, he calls the armies of all the Northern bannermen. Robb departs Winterfell to lead his army to war in the south, and leaves Bran in charge as acting lord of Winterfell. His youngest brother Rickon Stark has a prophetic dream that Robb and his men will never return to Winterfell.

After Eddard is executed by Joffrey and Robb wins the Battle of the Whispering Wood, his bannermen hail him as the new King in the North. The North and the Riverlands declare themselves an independent kingdom under Robb. Winterfell is the de jure capital, though Robb remains with his armies fighting in the south. Now-Prince Bran Stark continues to rule as acting lord of Winterfell, with the guidance of Maester Luwin.

House Greyjoy - insulted at the prospect of allying with the Starks against the Lannisters - then counter-intuitively chooses to both declare the independence of the Iron Islands from the Lannister-controlled Iron Throne, and to attack the North while most of its armies are in the south. To impress his father Balon Greyjoy, the conflicted Theon leads a daring assault that captures Winterfell with under 30 men. Theon's ironborn were few, but the castle only had a skeleton defensive garrison left, and Theon used his intimate knowledge of the castle to lead his men over the walls using climbing spikes. Bran surrenders the castle to Theon. Maester Luwin barely manages to get a messenger-raven out warning of what has happened, after which Theon kills all the ravens to stop any further messages from getting out.

Theon, however, has no way of easily holding Winterfell so far away from the sea, even with most of the North's armies away in the south. Bran and his brother Rickon escape Winterfell along with Hodor and Osha, making his position tenuous, so he passes off the burned bodies of two orphan boys so he won't look weak - though instead this angers the rest of the North. When word reaches Robb's army camp in the south, his commander Roose Bolton says that he can send a reserve garrison led by his bastard son Ramsay Snow to besiege Theon. Robb decides to offer the ironborn at Winterfell safe passage back to the Iron Islands - if they will hand over Theon, so he can be executed as a traitor to the Starks. Theon's sister Yara Greyjoy briefly stops in Winterfell but only to warn him that they have no way of reinforcing or holding the castle, and he must withdraw while he can. Theon, however, fears that he has come to far too turn back now in failure.

Maester Luwin pleads with Theon that this is now who he is, and he must surrender and join the Night's Watch while he still can. Theon admits the truth in this but says he has come too far. In a rousing speech to his men, Theon accepts that he will die, but they will all die bravely fighting sword in hand, so the other ironborn will remember their example. Instead, one of his men knocks him unconscious from behind, to hand him over as part of the deal for their lives. Bran and Rickon - who had actually doubled back to hide in Winterfell's crypts - emerge after the Sack of Winterfell to find that it has been put to the torch. All of the wooden parts of the castle are burned out, though the core stone structures remain intact. Bran and his companions flee north to the Wall.

When word reaches Robb Stark at Harrenhal of the sack of Winterfell, the report sent by Roose's son Ramsay says that the ironborn put the castle to the torch before fleeing, put the inhabitants to the sword, and killed Bran and Rickon. The loss of Winterfell makes Robb look weak, particularly after the Lannisters secured victory in the southern front of the war against the Baratheons at the Battle of the Blackwater. Rickard Karstark loses all faith in Robb and calls him "The King Who Lost the North"

Not long afterwards, Boltons and Freys betray the Starks at the Red Wedding, destroying the Northern army, and resulting in the deaths of Robb and Catelyn. Roose Bolton personally kills Robb by driving a dagger into his heart. Subsequently, Walder Frey and Roose muse on their future plans, and Walder asks if as the new ruler of the North, Roose will relocate to Winterfell. He says that he will in time, after it is rebuilt. Walder also asks what really happened at Winterfell, because after Theon took the castle no further news came out. Roose explains that he indeed sent his bastard son Ramsay Snow to besiege Winterfell with the Dreadfort's remaining garrison, and Theon's men betrayed him, handing him over to Ramsay in return for promise of safe passage. Ramsay, however, "has his own way of doing things" - he flayed all of the ironborn alive, even though they surrendered in good faith, and spent the next year slowly flaying and horrifically torturing Theon. As for Winterfell, it was Ramsay and his Bolton army who burned the castle, and who massacred all of the inhabitants - the Boltons simply lied to Robb Stark about what really happened, as they were planning to betray him for months before the Red Wedding occurred.

After Ramsay manages to retake the fortress Moat Cailin from the ironborn, the path is cleared for the main Bolton army to return to the North, and enforce Bolton/Lannister rule. Roose, Ramsay, and Reek (the tortured, broken wreck once known as Theon) lead the Bolton army back to Winterfell

The Boltons settle in at Winterfell, and bring in work crews and timber to start rebuilding the burned-out parts of the castle. The rest of the Bolton household has arrived as well, including Roose's new wife Fat Walda Frey. Following the death of Tywin Lannister, however, their already difficult hold over the North is even more tenuous: the armies of the Northern lords may have been destroyed, but the Lannisters left it to Bolton's army to rein them in, and will send no reinforcements so far out of the way. With Tywin dead, the Lannisters themselves are in a weakened position, and cannot aid the Boltons. Worse, Stannis Baratheon took his small remaining forces to the Wall, where they won a rousing victory in the Battle of Castle Black. Afterwards, Stannis intends to raise the North against the Boltons as a new sprinboard against Lannister rule. Stannis eventually leaves Castle Black to march to Winterfell, and begins to be supported by Northern houses who do not support the Boltons.

As part of a political plot, Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish arrives at Winterfell from the Vale - bringing none other than Sansa Stark, to make a marriage-alliance between her and Ramsay Bolton. Littlefinger, however, informs Sansa that he truly plans for her to undermine the Boltons from within, hopefully to aid Stannis's probable victory, and if Stannis dies, to at least still be in a position to subvert the Boltons in the future.

With Stannis's army drawing closer to the castle, Roose Bolton intends to muster his strength within the walls of Winterfell with his legitimized son Ramsay. Meanwhile, with support from Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, Lord Petyr Baelish has raised an army of knights from the Vale supported by his own levies to march North and combat both House Bolton and Stannis.

For the television series, a variety of locations were used to create Winterfell as it appears on screen. For the pilot episode, Doune Castle in Scotland was used for some exterior shots and the great feast held when King Robert Baratheon and his party arrive. Castle Ward in County Down, Northern Ireland was used for the scenes of sparring in Winterfell's castle yard and the arrival of Robert's party at Winterfell's gates. The rest of the castle, including the other interiors and the scenes involving Bran climbing the walls, were filmed as interiors at the Paint Hall studio facility in Belfast.

For the first season itself, Castle Ward was the principal filming location for the Winterfell scenes. Doune Castle was not revisited.

As of the start of Season 5, Winterfell is one of three locations (the others being King's Landing and Castle Black/The Wall) to be featured in every opening credits sequence, regardless as to whether the location is actually visited in the episode (this includes Season 3 and virtually all of Season 4 during which Winterfell is never visited nor seen at all).

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Winterfell is a huge castle complex spanning several acres, consisting of two massive walls with a ditch between them and a village located just outside. The complex consists of many buildings and keeps, some ancient and decrepit, some in good repair. According to legend, Winterfell was built by Bran the Builder eight thousand years ago.

The full castle as it appears at the start of the narrative has not been standing for eight thousand years: it was gradually expanded over many centuries like a tree growing new branches, giving it a less organized appearance than large castles which were planned out all at once such as the Red Keep in King's Landing. Parts have also had to be rebuilt over time, either due to natural degeneration or damage in sieges (Winterfell was burned out several times in ancient wars with the Boltons and other enemies, but the Starks always rallied and rebuilt it). The eldest surviving part of the castle is the First Keep, and old tower no longer actively used, which some maesters think dates back to some point after the Andal Invasion began six thousand years ago.

The crypts underneath Winterfell are massive - larger than the entire castle complex above ground. This is a testament to just how long the Starks have held Winterfell: according to tradition, there should be eight thousand years' worth of tombs in the crypts. According to tradition, while all Stark family members are buried in the crypts, statues are only made for those who were head of House Stark (either as kings or later as lords). There have been some exceptions over the generations, and Eddard himself had statues made at the tombs of his older brother Brandon and his sister Lyanna. The most ancient tombs are in the lower levels, and the more current ones closer to the surface. Many of the lower levels are half-collapsed and unexplored. With their vast size and lack of active use, it is quite easy for someone to hide in the crypts for weeks or even months at a time, as Bran, Rickon, and their followers did during the Sack of Winterfell, provided that they bring sufficient supplies with them. According to legend, when the infamous wildling rogue Bael the Bard seduced the daughter of a Stark lord, they hid out in the crypts for nearly a year undetected, long enough that when the daughter one day reappeared in her chambers she had with her the infant son that she had with Bael.


Storm's End

Location: The Stormlands

Ruling Family:
House Baratheon

Description:
Storm's End is the ancestral seat of House Baratheon, and one of three major castles currently held by the royal house, the others being the Red Keep in King's Landing and the island fastness of Dragonstone. Stannis Baratheon is the current Lord of Storm's End. Storm's End is a formidable fortress, located on the southeastern coast of Westeros overlooking Shipbreaker Bay.

History:
Storm's End's construction was attributed to Durran, a legendary figure of the Age of Heroes, who earned the hatred of the sea god and the wind goddess when he took Elenei, daughter of the two gods, as his wife. In rage, the two gods sent massive storms to destroy Durran's keep. Durran defied the gods and built a larger and more formidable keep, but it was also destroyed. Durran's seventh keep, built allegedly with the aid of Bran the Builder, withstood the rage of Elenei's parents and gained the name of Storm's End.

Storm's End became the seat of the rulers of the Stormlands, the Storm Kings, for millennia. When Aegon the Conqueror invaded Westeros, he sent his commander and rumored half-brother, Orys Baratheon, to take Storm's End. The last of the Storm Kings, Argilac the Arrogant, left the safety of his stronghold and met Baratheon in open battle. Argilac was defeated, and Orys Baratheon took Argilac's domains, sigil, motto and daughter, becoming the founder of House Baratheon 

One of the mightiest fortresses on the entire continent, Storm's End has endured many sieges but has never fallen to any attacker in its millennia-long history. Its seaward wall is 80 feet thick with a 150 feet drop into the sea below. The castle is said to be protected by spells woven into its walls that prevent magic from penetrating its defenses.

During Robert Baratheon's rebellion, Storm's End was besieged for over a year by the forces of House Tyrell, who had remained loyal to the Mad King, Aerys II Targaryen. The castle garrison, commanded by Robert's brother Stannis, was reduced to eating dogs and rats and were on the verge of resorting to cannibalism when they were saved by a shipload of onions, smuggled into the castle by the noted smuggler Davos. After Aerys' death, Eddard Stark bloodlessly raised the siege, as Lord Mace Tyrell realized that the war was lost, and he swore fealty to King Robert. Davos was raised to knighthood for his actions.

To Stannis's displeasure, he was made Lord of Dragonstone by his brother, leaving their infant brother Renly as the titular Lord of Storm's End. Stannis considered this a slight, as Dragonstone is even colder and harsher than Storm's End, despite Dragonstone being a fortress of great tactical importance and a history as a seat for Princes.

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Storm's End consists of a massive curtain wall surrounding a single immense drum tower. Unlike many other castles, which consist of a complex of different buildings, Storm's End is entirely contained within one large building. This is due to the immense storms that frequently batter the castle.


Casterly Rock

Location: The Westerlands

Ruling Family:
Lannister

Description:
Casterly Rock is the ancestral stronghold of House Lannister. It is located on the Western coast of Westeros on a rocky promontory overlooking the Sunset Sea. It overlooks the major city of Lannisport. A major goldmine is located under Casterly Rock. It is one of the most productive in the realm and provides House Lannister with their wealth.


History:
Lann the Clever swindled Casterly Rock from House Casterly.
According to tradition, the castle was originally held by the House Casterly, the old Kings of the Rock. They were hoodwinked into giving the Rock to Lann the Clever, a legendary trickster and ancestor of House Lannister, thousands of years ago, during the Age of Heroes.

After the death of the Lord Hand Jon Arryn, Queen Cersei is worried Lord Arryn might have told the truth about the incestuous nature of her children. Her brother and lover Ser Jaime Lannister says that she worries too much, and Cersei retorts that he in turn never worries about anything, such as when they were seven years old and he jumped off the cliffs at Casterly Rock.

In Winterfell, Jaime Lannister learns his brother Tyrion is visiting the Wall before returning to King's Landing, and jokingly asks him if he is taking the black. Tyrion claims that, were he to go celibate, the whores would go begging from Dorne to Casterly Rock, and explains he simply wants to visit the Wall. Later, on the Way to the Wall, Tyrion talks to Jon Snow and explains that, as a dwarf, the only reason he wasn't left to die as a baby was because he wasn't born a peasant but a Lannister of Casterly Rock.

Upon hearing that Catelyn Stark has abducted his brother Tyrion, Jaime attacks Eddard Stark in the streets of King's Landing, killing much of his retinue. Back in Winterfell, Theon Greyjoy is furious and tries to convince Robb Stark to retaliate by marching against Casterly Rock, where Jaime Lannister escaped to after the fight. However, Robb refuses. In the Red Keep, Lord Eddard learns that Ser Gregor Clegane has been scouring the Riverlands. Aware that Clegane only follows Tywin Lannister's orders, he pronounces Clegane a criminal and instructs Grand Maester Pycelle to send a raven to Casterly Rock and inform Tywin Lannister that he must come to King's Landing and answer for Clegane's crimes —if he doesn't depart Casterly Rock and arrive at King's Landing within the fortnight, he will be brinded a traitor.

Tyrion Lannister introduces Tywin to the Hill tribes he recruited as "My Lord Father, Tywin son of Tytos of house Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West." Likewise, in King's Landing Tywin is named Hand of the King and described as Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West.

When Jaime Lannister is taken prisoner by Robb Stark in the Battle of the Whispering Wood, the Lannister bannermen hold a strategy meeting and Leo Lefford suggests they can't march on the Starks at once —they must first return to Casterly Rock and raise levies.

Theon Greyjoy tries to convince his father Balon that, if they pledge fealty to Robb Stark and fight for the Starks in the war, the Greyjoys will be given Casterly Rock as a reward once the war is over. Balon refuses, as he claims the Greyjoys are not subject to anyone and take what is theirs.

As a captive of Lady Brienne of Tarth, Ser Jaime insists on knowing his captor's identity, and to encourage her he introduces himself first as "Jaime Lannister of Casterly Rock, son of Tywin." In Harrenhal, Tywin's bannermen discuss whether to march against King Robb or King Stannis, and Tywin notes that Robb is too close to Casterly Rock, but his brother Lord Kevan argues that, since the Greyjoy's attack on Winterfell has divided Stark's forces, Robb won't risk marching on Casterly Rock until he is at full force. In King's Landing, the Hand in functions Tyrion tells Varys, the Master of Whisperers, that he never expected to have any real power —While his brother became the youngest Kingsguard in history and his sister became queen at nineteen, Tyrion was merely put in charge of the drains and cisterns of Casterly Rock.

During the Battle of the Blackwater, the Ladies of the Court are taken into the protection of Maegor's Holdfast, where Cersei tells Sansa Stark, the Lannister's captive and bride to be of King Joffrey, that she never understood why Jaime and she were treated differently —While Jaime was heir to Casterly Rock, she was "sold to some stranger like a horse to be ridden whenever he desired."

After the Battle of the Blackwatter, Queen Cersei interrogates Tyrion about what he intends to tell Tywin, claiming she is worried because he slandered her to their father before: as children in Casterly Rock, Cersei had the guards beat a servant girl and Tyrion told on her. Tyrion asks Tywin to give him Casterly Rock, which is his by right since the day Jaime became a Kingsguard, as the brotherhood cannot inherit. However, Tywin coldly refuses his request, telling him that he would let himself "be consumed by maggots before mocking the family name and making you heir to Casterly Rock", arguing Tyrion would turn it into his whorehouse.

In Riverrun, Brynden Tully chastises his nephew Lord Edmure for talking to King Robb proudly about his blunder at the Stone Mill, yet Edmure argues his actions made Ser Gregor Clegane flee to Casterly Rock.

Thanks to his wife Talisa Stark, King Robb realizes that, while he can't force the Lannisters to meet them in the field and they can't attack them at King's Landing where they are strongest, he can attack them at Casterly Rock.

Lady and Queen-consort-to-be Margaery Tyrell tries to convince Sansa Stark that her arranged marriage to Tyrion Lannister may not be so bad, as he is far from the worst Lannister and their son together would eventually become Lord of Casterly Rock and the North both. Tyrion gifts his lover Shae golden chains of solid gold from the mines outside Lannisport, smithed in Casterly Rock. However, Shae is angry at his betrothal to Sansa Stark, and tries to convince him to go with her across the Narrow Sea. Tyrion refuses, as he is "a Lannister of Casterly Rock."

At Tyrion and Sansa's wedding, Queen Cersei intimidates Lady Margaery by telling them the story behind the famous song of "The Rains of Castamere": Lord Reyne built a castle as grand as Casterly Rock, gave his wife diamonds larger than any Joanna Lannister ever wore and finally he rebelled against Lord Tywin, for which he and his whole House were absolutely slaughtered. Cersei tells Margaery that she remembers seeing the bodies of the Reyne's hanging high above the gates of Casterly Rock.

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Casterly Rock is one of the most formidable and well-defended castles in all of Westeros. It is located on the west coast of the continent, just north of the city of Lannisport, and is built into an immense rock formation. According to legends, it has never fallen in battle.

The castle consists of fortifications built into and on top of the Rock, with additional catacombs, dungeons and redoubts built deep into the bowels of the formation. The castle's primary entrance is the heavily-defended Lion's Mouth.


Regions:

The North

Capitol: Winterfell

Ruling Family:
House Stark(former)
House Bolton

Description:
The North is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms, and was formerly a sovereign nation known as the Kingdom of the North before the Targaryen conquest.

The North is ruled from the castle of Winterfell by House Bolton following the fall of House Stark during the War of the Five Kings. It is the largest of the nine major regions of the continent, almost equal in size to the other eight combined.  

History:
According to legend, the Kingdom of the North was established eight thousand years ago by Bran the Builder, the founder of House Stark, who constructed the Wall as a shield against the possible return of the White Walkers.  The North is the only region where the First Men were able to resist the Andal Invasion, six thousand years before the War of the Five Kings.  As a result the North is the only region of Westeros in which the ethnic makeup is predominantly First Men, and the only region where the culture, customs, and traditions of the First Men still predominate. Among these is the belief that the man who passes the sentence of death must swing the sword himself.  In particular, the religion of the First Men, the worship of the Old Gods of the Forest, is still the dominant faith in the North. The Faith of the Seven introduced into southern Westeros by the Andals has found little foothold in the North. As a result, warriors from the North are not "knights", because "knighthood" is a code of values associated with the Faith of the Seven.  However, mounted warriors are still an honored and esteemed military asset in the North, so that while northmen like Ned Stark may not carry the title "Ser", Northern cavalry are functionally equivalent to mounted knights.  

Bastards born in the North are given the surname Snow. People of the North are known as Northmen (or Northerners), and, derogatorily as wolves, in reference to the sigil of House Stark.

The borders of the North are held to be the sea to the west and east, the Wall to the north and the hills and bogs of the Neck to the south. Greywater Watch and its ruling house, House Reed, are the southern-most noble family owing fealty to Winterfell.

The climate of the North, though harsh overall, varies from cool (maritime) temperate around the Neck, to cold temperate around Winterfell, and to subarctic at the Wall. The lands south of Winterfell leading to the Neck are almost as fertile as the Riverlands to the south, and are the most agriculturally productive region of the North.  The Neck itself is filled with swamps.  Snowfall generally increases as one moves north along the Kingsroad.

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the North is an area vast in size but relatively light in population. The North, due to its location, is particularly badly affected during the long winters, with thousands of people killed and famine not an uncommon occurrence due to the inability to raise crops for years on end, outside of special greenhouses and castles built on or near hot springs, like Winterfell, or volcanic vents, like the Dreadfort of House Bolton.

The people of the North, popularly called "northmen" or "notherners", are known as a hardy, tough breed who hold the comforts of the warm, "soft" south in disdain. They worship the old gods of the forest, and the "new gods" of the Andals have made little headway in the North. With a few exceptions, the warriors of the North refuse to take holy orders and thus cannot become knights.

Some of the northmen live in remote, distant areas where they act little more as clans and tribes of savage warriors. Even these remote folk are vassals of the Starks, however, and are allowed to maintain their own ways and traditions as long as they remain loyal to Winterfell - which most of them usually do, as the Starks have a history of being just and honorable rulers. The Starks treated the mountain clans with respect by referring to them as if they were small-scale noble Houses, i.e. calling them "House Wull" and "House Norrey", instead of dismissively thinking of them as lowly "clans".


The Stormlands

Capitol: Storm's End

Ruling Family:
House Baratheon

Description:
The Stormlands is one of the nine constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms. It is located on the south east coast of the continent of Westeros, on the shores of the Narrow Sea, south of the Crownlands and north of Dorne. The Stormlands are ruled from the castle of Storm's End by House Baratheon. They are so-named for the savage and frequent storms from the Narrow Sea that batter the coast. It was originally a sovereign nation known as the Storm Kingdom, until Aegon the Conqueror united Westeros under his rule.

History:
When Aegon Targaryen and his army invaded Westeros during the War of Conquest, Aegon sent his bastard half-brother Orys Baratheon to secure the Stormlands. The Storm King, Argilac the Arrogant, could have withstood siege indefinitely within Storm's End's mighty walls, but chose instead to give battle. He was defeated and killed. Storm's End surrendered and Aegon ennobled Orys, giving him Argilac's lands, castle and daughter to rule. House Baratheon continued to rule the Stormlands for the next three centuries, up to the time of Robert's Rebellion.

Bastards born in the Stormlands are given the surname Storm.

The Stormlands are located on the east coast of Westeros, relatively near the Free Cities in Essos across the Narrow Sea. They are largely separated from Dorne to the south by an inlet of the Narrow Sea known as the Sea of Dorne. In the north, Blackwater Bay separates the Stormlands from the bulk of the Crownlands, though the Crownlands actually extend south of the bay, in a small strip that includes the northern parts of the Kingswood, as well as the peninsula of Massey's Hook. To the west, the Stormlands share a long border with The Reach, which extends all the way from south of Highgarden to almost reach the capital city of King's Landing in the north. The vast watershed of the Mander River, which dominates the Reach as it flows west, does not extend into the Stormlands, indeed the watershed of the Mander is essentially what marks the border between the Reach and the Stormlands.

The main portion of the Stormlands is composed of two peninsulas, one in the north and one in the south, interrupted in the middle of the coast by the indentation of Shipbreaker's Bay. The castle seat of Storm's End is located in Shipbreaker's Bay, on the northern side. The northern peninsula terminates in Massey's Hook (which is part of the Crownlands), while the end of the southern peninsula is known as Cape Wrath, because it is the target of the worst storms coming off of the Narrow Sea.

To the southwest, the long chain of the Red Mountains form a barrier between Dorne and the rest of the continent, particularly the regions it immediately borders, the Reach to the west and north-west, and the Stormlands to the northeast. A large salient of the Stormlands extend southwest of the main coastal area, which includes the northern portions of the Red Mountains. Called the "Dornish Marches", this mountainous region is home to marcher-lords who rely on the rough terrain to defend the Stormlands against incursions from Dorne or the Reach.

The extreme northern end of the Red Mountains, past the Dornish Marches, extend from southwest to northeast across the base of Cape Wrath, terminating around the inlet of Shipbreaker's Bay. This makes the separation between the northern and southern peninsulas of the Stormands even more distinct, and separates the Rainwood in Cape Wrath from the Kingswood in the north.

Several large off-shore islands are located off the coast, which are considered part of the Stormlands and sworn to Storm's End. The largest by far is the island of Tarth, located off the coast of the northern half of the Stormlands. A mountainous island famed for its rugged beauty, the Straits of Tarth between the island and the mainland are much more calm than the dangerous (and aptly named) Shipbreaker's Bay to the south. Tarth provides enough of a breaker for storms that the northern peninsula of the Stormlands on the mainland has somewhat calmer weather than Cape Wrath to the south. Moreover, unlike the Rainwood which covers all of the Cape Wrath peninsula, the Kingswood does not extend over the eastern coastal plain of the northern peninsula. Thus the region around Storm's End itself is composed of fertile coastal plains.

The Stormlands have a warm, wet climate due to all of the storms that batter it from the Narrow Sea to the east. The high mountains of the Dornish Marches to the southwest, however, are said to have a very cold, alpine climate.

The Stormlands are one of the most heavily forested regions of the Seven Kingdoms. Two of the three large forests of the realm are located there, the Kingswood in the north (straddling the border with the Crownlands), and the Rainwood in the southern half of the Stormlands. The third large forest, the Wolfswood, is located in the North, but due to the large size of the North it does not dominate the entire region. In contrast, due to its moderate size, the Kingswood and Rainwood combined cover most of the Stormlands. Combined with the wet weather coming from the Narrow Sea, the climate of the Stormlands is predominantly temperate rainforest.

The Kingsroad begins at Storm's End in the south, linking travel to King's Landing just north of the Stormlands, and ultimately leading all the way north through the Riverlands to Winterfell and the Wall. Travel between the Stormlands and Dorne is only possible through two dangerous passes through the Red Mountains, the Prince's Pass and the Boneway. There are no major roads running directly between the Stormlands and the Reach, however, travelers from the Stormlands can use the nearby Roseroad between King's Landing and Highgarden in the Reach. A traveler from Storm's End would only have to travel along the Kingsroad to slightly north of the border into the Crownlands, where the Roseroad meets with the Kingsroad just south of the capital city.

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Storm Kingdom is said to have contested frequently with the Riverlands to the north, the Reach to the south-west and Dorne to the south over territory. The Stormlands are usually damp and wet, and also contain many forests, including the Kingswood in the north and Rainwood in the south. The Stormlands consist of a main area along the coast and a long salient to the south-west, stretching along the Red Mountains. This salient is known as the Dornish Marches and serves as an effective buffer zone between the old enemies of the Reach and Dorne.

Some 360 years prior to the Targaryen Conquest, the Stormlands conquered the area which would later be known as the Riverlands, which was not politically unified at the time. The Stormlands continued to rule the Riverlands for three centuries, until roughly three generations before the Targaryen Conquest, when the Riverlands were in turn conquered by the Iron Islands, driving the Storm Kings back to the Stormlands.

The Stormlands have been known to become involved in some of the wars of the Free Cities which also border the Narrow Sea, though it doesn't seem to have as much cultural contact with them as Dorne does. During the Bleeding Years following the downfall of Valyria, the old Storm Kings joined the alliance of Tyrosh, Pentos, Braavos, Lys, and Myr against Volantis, when Volantis attempted to conquer all of the other Free Cities.

George R.R. Martin has on occasion remarked that the Stormlands are somewhat comparable to medieval Germany, in that like Germany they are very heavily forested. Two of the three remaining large forests in the Seven Kingdoms are located in the Stormlands (the third is the Wolfswood, located in the North). However, this also means that the Stormlands are not as agriculturally developed as other parts of Westeros, particularly the fertile fields of the Reach. As a result, the Stormlands cannot raise armies as large as the Reach can. Another similarity is that the Reach is analogous to France, and France and Germany share a long and ill-defined border - just as the Reach and the Stormlands didn't have a well-defined border before the Targaryen Conquest, just a vague border-zone along the Dornish Marches and the upper valleys of the Mander River and its tributaries.


The Westerlands

Capitol: Casterly Rock

Ruling Family:
House Lannister

Description:
The Westerlands is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms. It was formerly a sovereign realm known as the Kingdom of the Rock before the Targaryen conquest.

The Westerlands are ruled from the castle of Casterly Rock by House Lannister. It is one of the smaller regions of the Seven Kingdoms, but is immensely rich in natural resources, particularly metals. Predominantly mountainous, the hills of the Westerlands are riddled with veins of gold and silver, the mining of which has made the Lannisters and their bannermen immensely rich. While the Lannister armies are not as huge as those of the Reach, they are the best-equipped in the realm, with heavily-armored soldiers and cavalry.

History:
Bastards born in the Westerlands are given the surname Hill. People of the Westerlands are collectively known as Westernmen, and are referred to, derogatorily, as "lions", in reference to the sigil of House Lannister. Colloquially, Westermen are also referred to as Lannisters.

The Westerlands border the Riverlands to the east, and the Reach to the south. The Goldroad links Lannisport on Westeros' west coast with the capital city of King's Landing on the east coast, passing through the Reach, skirting south of the Riverlands. The Searoad, hugging the coast, links Lannisport with the capital of the Reach at Highgarden as well as the major city of Oldtown further south. Predominantly mountainous, the Westerlands are well-defended from external attack. There is only one major pass through the mountains in the east of the Westerlands, near the headwaters of the Red Fork of the Trident River. Thus there is only one narrow and predictable path that armies moving between the Westerlands and Riverlands can normally take, and it is guarded by the castle of Golden Tooth.

The Westerlands border on the waters of Ironman's Bay to the north, and thus are under threat of ironborn attacks along the coasts. House Lannister commonly keeps a large fleet of warships to defends against these attacks (thus the Greyjoy Rebellion began with a sneak attack which burned the Lannister fleet at anchor). Apart from its mountainous terrain, the Westerlands are also somewhat better defended from ironborn attacks because they possesses few major rivers which empty into the west coast; this is in contrast with the Reach, which while further south from the Iron Islands, possesses major rivers such as the Mander which are navigable for a long distance inland.

The headwaters of the Red Fork of the Trident River originate in the Westerlands' eastern border but do not run through much of it before passing into the Riverlands to the east. The only major river in the Westerlands is in the north, where the Tumblestone river flows east. Ultimately the Tumblestone passes into the Riverlands, where it joins the Red Fork coming up from the south at Riverrun.

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels the Westerlands consist of a landscape of hills and valleys stretching from the well-watered Riverlands in the east to the sea in the north and west, and to the fertile plains of the Reach to the south.


Houses:

House Stark
"Winter Is Coming"

Description:
House Stark of Winterfell is an exiled Great House of Westeros, ruling over the vast region known as the North from their seat in Winterfell. It is by far one of the oldest lines of Westerosi nobility, claiming a line of descent stretching back over eight thousand years. The head of the house is the Lord of Winterfell. Before the Targaryen conquest, the leaders of House Stark ruled over the region as the Kings in the North.

House Stark's sigil is a grey direwolf on a white field, sometimes white and pale green. They are one of the few noble Houses whose family words are not a boast or threat. Instead, the House Stark family motto is a warning, one that, no matter the circumstances, will always be relevant: "Winter is Coming".


House Baratheon
"Ours is the Fury"

Description:
House Baratheon of Storm's End is one of the Great Houses of Westeros, although also one of the youngest. It is the current royal house.

House Baratheon's sigil is a black stag on a gold background and their house motto is "Ours is the Fury". When Robert ascended the Iron Throne, a gold crown was added to the stag, denoting their status as the royal house.

The ancestral Baratheon stronghold is Storm's End, but since becoming the royal house, they have also taken possession of the old Targaryen island fortress of Dragonstone, while the King rules from the city of King's Landing, the capital of the Seven Kingdoms.


House Lannister
"Hear me roar!"

Description:
House Lannister of Casterly Rock is one of the Great Houses of Westeros, one of its richest and most powerful families and oldest dynasties. The major characters Jaime, Cersei, and Tyrion and the recurring characters Tywin, Kevan, and Lancel are members of the house. Tywin is the head of House Lannister and Lord of Casterly Rock.

Their lands are in the far west of the continent. Their seat is Casterly Rock, a massive rocky promontory overlooking the Sunset Sea which has had habitations and fortifications built into it over the millennia. They are the Lords Paramount of the Westerlands and Wardens of the West. House Lannister's Heraldry consists of a golden lion on a crimson background, and their House words are "Hear me roar!", which is rarely mentioned. Their unofficial motto, which is as well known as the official one, is "A Lannister always pays his debts" - which is used much more often and mostly in negative context, though it can also be used in the original, literal sense.



Image URLs:

The North: http://cdn.obsidianportal.com/assets/99345/The_North.jpg

The Stormlands: http://cdn.obsidianportal.com/assets/107062/StormlandsTopo.jpg

The Westerlands: http://cdn.obsidianportal.com/assets/107056/WesterlandsTopo.jpg


Winterfell: http://images4.fanpop.com/image/photos/24500000/Winterfell-house-stark-24507794-1280-720.jpg

Storm's End:http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/gotascent/images/5/55/World_Storm%27s_End.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20140309101535

Casterly Rock:http://41.media.tumblr.com/cee40dfdf0ad5a5c964a295027fa033c/tumblr_n6kzmsdfDj1sp8yqvo1_1280.jpg


Eddard Stark: http://img3.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20120511213934/gameofthrones/images/5/5c/Eddard_1x01.jpg

Robert Baratheon: http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20101128161640/gameofthrones/images/d/d8/Robert_Baratheon.jpg

Tywin Lannister: http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20110320125647/gameofthrones/images/1/1e/Tywin_Lannister.jpg


House Stark: http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20140402121259/gameofthrones/images/thumb/7/72/House-Stark-heraldry.jpg/250px-House-Stark-heraldry.jpg

House Baratheon: http://img3.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20150222123041/gameofthrones/images/thumb/f/f6/Baratheon_sig.png/250px-Baratheon_sig.png

House Lannister: http://img1.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20140402110342/gameofthrones/images/thumb/0/0b/House-Lannister-heraldry.jpg/250px-House-Lannister-heraldry.jpg



Sources:
gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/*
www.westeros.org/GoT/Characters/Entry/*
